1. What is a Snowflake cloud data warehouse?

Snowflake is an analytic data warehouse implemented as a SaaS service. 
It is built on a new SQL database engine with a unique architecture built for the cloud.
This cloud-based data warehouse solution was first available on AWS as software to load and analyze massive volumes of data.
The most remarkable feature of Snowflake is its ability to spin up any number of virtual warehouses, which means the user can operate an 
unlimited number of independent workloads against the same data without any risk of contention.

2. Explain Snowflake architecture
Snowflake is built on an AWS cloud data warehouse and is truly a Saas offering. 
There is no software, hardware, ongoing maintenance, tuning, etc. needed to work with Snowflake.

Three main layers make the Snowflake architecture - database storage, query processing, and cloud services.

Data storage - In Snowflake, the stored data is reorganized into its internal optimized, columnar, and optimized format. 
Query processing - Virtual warehouses process the queries in Snowflake.
Cloud services - This layer coordinates and handles all activities across the Snowflake. It provides the best results for Authentication, 
Metadata management, Infrastructure management, Access control, and Query parsing.

3. What are the features of Snowflake?
Unique features of the Snowflake data warehouse are listed below:

Database and Object Closing
Support for XML
External tables
Hive meta store integration
Supports geospatial data
Security and data protection
Data sharing
Search optimization service
Table streams on external tables and shared tables
Result Caching


4.Describe Snowflake computing. 
Snowflake cloud data warehouse platform provides instant, secure, and governed access to the entire data network and 
a core architecture to enable various types of data workloads, including a single platform for developing modern 
data applications. Snowflake brings together the power of data warehouses, 
the scalability of big data platforms, the elasticity of the cloud, and real-time data sharing at a 
fraction of the cost of traditional solutions.

5. What are the cloud platforms currently supported by Snowflake?
Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
Microsoft Azure (Azure)

6. What is the use of the Cloud Services layer in Snowflake?
The services layer acts as the brain of the Snowflake. In Snowflake, the Services layer authenticates 
user sessions, applies security functions, offers management, performs optimization, and organizes all the transactions.



7.How is data stored in Snowflake?
Snowflake stores the data in multiple micro partitions which are internally optimized and compressed. 
The data is stored in a columnar format in the cloud storage of Snowflake. 
The data objects stored by Snowflake cannot be accessed or visible to the users. 
By running SQL query operations on Snowflake, you can access them.


8.How many editions of Snowflake are available?
Snowflake offers four editions depending on your usage requirements.

Standard edition - Its introductory level offering provides unlimited access to Snowflake’s standard features.
Enterprise edition - Along with Standard edition features and services, offers additional features required for large-scale enterprises.
Business-critical edition - Also, called Enterprise for Sensitive Data (ESD). It offers high-level data protection
for sensitive data to organization needs.
Virtual Private Snowflake (VPS) - Provides high-level security for organizations dealing with financial activities.


9.Explain Virtual warehouse
In Snowflake, a virtual warehouse, often known as a "warehouse," is a collection of computational resources. A virtual warehouse provides the resources required for the users like CPU, memory, and temporary storage to perform multiple Snowflake operations:

Execute the SQL SELECT statements that necessitate the use of computing resources  (e.g. retrieving rows from tables and views).
DML operations include:
Updating table rows (DELETE , INSERT , UPDATE).
Data Loading into tables (COPY INTO <table>).
Data unloading from tables (COPY INTO <location>).

10. Is Snowflake OLTP or OLAP?
An OLTP (Online Transactional Processing) database contains detailed and up-to-date data, 
as well as a large volume of typically small data transactions. 
In turn, online analytical processing (OLAP) often necessitates complex and aggregated queries with a small number of transactions. 
Snowflake's database schema is built around online analytical processing.

11.What are Micro Partitions?
Snowflake comes along with a robust and unique kind of 
data partitioning known as micro partitioning. 
Data that exists in the Snowflake tables are systematically converted into micro partitions. 
Generally, we perform Micro partitioning on the Snowflake tables.

12.Explain Snowflake Time Travel
Snowflake Time Travel tool allows us to access the past data at any moment in the specified period. 
Through this, we can see the data that we can change or delete. Through this tool, we can carry out the following tasks:

Restore the data-associated objects that may have lost unintentionally.
For examining the data utilization and changes done to the data in a specific time period.
Duplicating and backing up the data from the essential points in history.


13. What is zero-copy Cloning in Snowflake?
Zero copy cloning is a snowflake implementation in which a simple keyword CLONE allows you to generate a clone of your tables, schemas, and databases without replicating the actual data. As a result, you can have practically real-time data from production cloned into your dev and stage environments to conduct various activities.

Advantages:

There are no additional storage costs associated with data replication.
There is no waiting time for copying data from production to non-production contexts.
There is no need for administrative efforts since cloning is as simple as a click of a button. 
No copy, only clone: Data exists only in one place.
Promote corrected/fixed data to production instantly.


14.Differentiate Fail-Safe and Time-Travel in Snowflake
Time-Travel	Fail-Safe
According to the Snowflake edition, account or object particular time travel setup, 
users can retrieve and set the data reverting to the history.
Fail-Safe, 
the User does not have control over the recovery of data valuable merely after completing the period. 
In this context, only Snowflake assistance can help for 7 days. Therefore if you set time travel as six days, 
we retrieve the database objects after executing the transaction + 6 days duration.


15.What is SnowSQL used for?
SnowSQL is the command-line client used to connect to Snowflake and conduct SQL queries as well as complete all DDL and DML actions 
such as loading and unloading data from database tables.
SnowSQL (snowsql executable) can be operated as an interactive shell or in batch mode via stdin or with the -f option.


16.What are Snowflake views?
Views are useful for displaying certain rows and columns in one or more tables. A view makes it possible to obtain 
the result of a query as if it were a table. The CREATE VIEW statement defines the query. Snowflake supports two different types of views:

Non-materialized views (often referred to as "views") - The results of a non-materialized view are obtained by executing the query at 
the moment the view is referenced in a query. When compared to materialised views, performance is slower. 
Materialized views - Although named as a type of view, a materialised view behaves more like a table in many aspects.
The results of a materialised view are saved in a similar way to that of a table. This allows for faster access, 
but it necessitates storage space and active maintenance, both of which incur extra expenses.

17.Describe Snowflake Clustering
In Snowflake, data partitioning is called clustering, which specifies cluster keys on the table. 
The method by which you manage clustered data in a table is called re-clustering.

A clustering key is a subset of columns in a table (or expressions on a database) that are deliberately intended
to co-locate the table's data in the same micro-partitions. This is beneficial for very large tables where 
the ordering was not perfect (at the time the data was inserted/loaded) or if extensive DML has weakened the table's natural clustering.
Some general indicators that can help determine whether a clustering key should be defined for a table are as follows:
Table queries are running slower than expected or have degraded noticeably over time.
The table's clustering depth is large.

18.Explain Data Shares
Snowflake Data sharing allows organizations to securely and immediately 
share their data. Secure data sharing enables sharing of the data between 
the accounts through Snowflake secure views, database tables.

19.What is “Stage” in the Snowflake?
In Snowflake, stages are data storage locations. 
If the data to be imported into Snowflake is stored in another cloud area, such as AWS S3, Azure, or GCP, 
these are referred to as External stages; if the data is stored within Snowflake, they are referred to as Internal stages.

Internal Stages are further divided as below

Table Stage
User Stage
Internal Named Stage

20. Does Snowflake maintain stored procedures?
Yes, Snowflake maintains stored procedures. The stored procedure is the same as a function; 
it is created once and used several times. Through the CREATE PROCEDURE command,
we can create it and through the “CALL” command, we can execute it. In Snowflake, 
stored procedures are developed in Javascript API.
These APIs enable stored procedures for executing the database operations like SELECT, UPDATE, and CREATE.


